# Horticbot_Pest
Agriculture is the main source of food and fodder. It demands constant hard work, attention to detail, responsibility, flexibility and time to produce good yields. The main problems the farmers face are many, for example, water supply to the crops, farming equipment, dependence on traditional crops, storage facilities, etc. The foremost and important issues the farmers face are maintaining crop health, pest management and weed removal. 
          The main focus is to manage crops of the same type like tomato, brinjal and green chilli. The pests found in these types of plants are also similar. The rover monitors the crop individually by using low-image sensors.
          The rover locomotes through the field to monitor the growth of crops. The rover fetches details regarding the appearance of the plants and obtains a detailed view of the vegetative greenness of the plants by the Normalised Difference Red Edge Index (NDRE). The rover focuses on the dimensions of the plants such as stem width, height and density of the leaves. It reports to the farmer or the owner of the field about the periodic progress which helps the farmers in the management of their crop accordingly. 
            Weeds compete with the main crop for oxygen, water, sunlight and nutrients in the soil making them deficient for the main crops. For these reasons removal of weeds is mandatory. The rover detects the presence of weed using Image processing and deep learning methods and it will be removed from the field. 
